			 Cyclic CVS Mini-FAQ
		ftp://ftp.cyclic.com/pub/cvs/mini-FAQ
		     Jim Blandy <jimb@cyclic.com>
				   

* What is Cyclic CVS?

Cyclic CVS is a branch from version 1.4A2 of the original CVS
distribution, with further bug fixes and speedups installed, in
addition to the remote repository access features.

Cyclic CVS can access repositories on remote machines.  This is very
helpful when collaborating on a project with someone across a
wide-area network.

Here are some of Cyclic CVS's features:
- It uses reliable transport protocols (TCP/IP) for remote repository
  access, not NFS.  NFS is unusable over long distances (and sometimes
  over short distances)
- It transfers only those files that have changed in the repository or
  the working directory.  To save transmission time, it will transfer
  patches when appropriate, and can compress data for transmission.
- The server never holds CVS locks while waiting for a reply from the client;
  this makes the system robust when used over flaky networks.

Cyclic CVS was written by the talented folks at Cygnus Support
<info@cygnus.com>, but they can't spare the time to support it or
distribute it themselves.  They don't want bug reports or questions.
Instead, send those to the cyclic-cvs mailing list, described below.


* Aren't there other similar CVS hacks out there?

There have been several CVS variants designed with similar goals.
contrib/pcl-cvs/pcl-cvs.el mentions one or two, for example.  However,
I've had a hard time finding more information about those
implementations, so I can't comment on them.  Are they better?  Worse?
Do they have the same name?  Let me know!


* How can I get Cyclic CVS?

If you'd like to try this implementation out, it's available via
anonymous ftp from ftp.cyclic.com, as /pub/cvs/cvs.tar.gz.  The
mailing list cyclic-cvs@cyclic.com has been set up to handle bug
reports and questions; send mail to cyclic-cvs-request@cyclic.com to
subscribe or unsubscribe.

Nota bene:
- It has not tested or ported much, with all that that entails ---
  bugs, portability problems, documentation inconsistencies.
- I can't promise any support for it.  If you need it, get in touch
  with me; maybe we can work something out.
- Nevertheless, please send all bug reports to cyclic-cvs@cyclic.com.
  Most people on the info-cvs mailing list probably won't be able to
  fix them (since they don't use the package).


* Where are the remote features documented?

Check out doc/cvsclient.texi in the Cyclic CVS distribution.  Would
you like to update the main doc file, cvs.texinfo to describe Cyclic
CVS's features?
