First, read the README file.  If you're still happy...

The CVS 1.4 Alpha release has been tested on the following platforms.  Your
mileage may vary.  Please send updates to this list using the "cvsbug"
program, specifying the "portability" category.  If your installation
failed, you may need to run "cvsbug" directly from the "src" directory as
"src/cvsbug.sh".

	DEC Alpha running OSF/1 version 1.3 using cc
	DEC Alpha running OSF/1 version 2.1
	HP 9000/710 running HP-UX 8.07A using gcc
	HP 9000/715 running HP-UX 9.01 using gcc
	Gateway P5-66 (pentium) running Solaris 2.4 using gcc
	IBM RS/6000 running AIX 3.2.5 using gcc and cc
	IBM RS/6000 running AIX 4.1 using gcc and cc (*)
	PC Clone running UnixWare v1.1.1 using gcc
	PC Clone running Linux 1.1.48 using gcc
	SGI Indigo 2 running Irix 4.0.5H using gcc and cc (**)
	Sun SPARCstation 1+ running SunOS 4.1.3 using gcc and cc
	Sun SPARCstation 10 running Solaris 2.3 using gcc and cc
	Sun SPARCstation 10 running Solaris 2.4 using gcc
	Sun SPARCstation 10 running SunOS 4.1.3_U1 using gcc and cc

NOTE:	CVS relies on having some form of the opendir/readdir/closedir
	functions being available.  Some older systems do not support these
	calls.  CVS will not work with these systems unless a suitable
	readdir implementation is installed on the system.  Take a look at
	the file "contrib/dirfns", which contains some code that might add
	this support to your system.

(*)	AIX 4.1 systems fail to run "configure" due to bugs in their
	"/bin/sh" implementation.  You might want to try feeding the
	configure script to "bash" ported to AIX 4.1.

(**)	Some Irix 4.0 systems may core dump in malloc while running
	CVS.  We believe this is a bug in the Irix malloc.  You can
	workaround this bug by linking with "-lmalloc" if necessary.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Installation:

1)  Copy src/options.h.in to src/options.h, and edit the latter file.
    Appropriate things to look at may be the invocation locations of
    programs like DIFF, GREP, RM, and SORT.  Also glance at the
    default values for the environment variables that CVS uses, in
    particular, the RCSBIN variable, which holds the path to where the
    RCS programs live on your system.  The likelihood is that you
    don't have to change anything here, except perhaps adding the -a
    option to DIFF if you are using GNU diff (which is strongly
    recommended).

2)  Run "configure":

	$ ./configure

    You can specify an alternate destination to override the default with
    the --prefix option:

	$ ./configure --prefix=/usr/local/gnu

    or some path that is more appropriate for your site.  The default prefix
    value is "/usr/local", with binaries in sub-directory "bin", manual
    pages in sub-directory "man", and libraries in sub-directory "lib".

    This release of CVS also requires RCS commands to be installed in the
    user's PATH (or a path you have configured in src/options.h).  If you
    don't have RCS, you will need to get it from GNU as well.  It is best
    to get the version 5.6 (or later) version of RCS, available from
    prep.ai.mit.edu in the file pub/gnu/rcs-5.6.tar.Z.  Along with RCS, you
    will want to run GNU diff.  This will allow revision control of files
    with binary data (a real nice feature).  You will need at least version
    1.15 of GNU diff for this to work.  Be sure that you configure RCS to
    work correctly with GNU diff to avoid other configuration problems.

    NOTE: The configure program will cache the results of the previous
    configure execution.  If you need to re-run configure from scratch, you
    may need to run "make distclean" first to remove the cached
    configuration information.

    NOTE ON CVS's USE OF NDBM:

	By default, CVS uses some built-in ndbm emulation code to allow
	CVS to work in a heterogeneous environment.  However, if you have
	a very large modules database, this may not work well.  You will
	need to edit src/options.h to turn off the MY_NDBM #define and
	re-run configure.  If you do this, the following comments apply.
	If not, you may safely skip these comments.

	If you configure CVS to use the real ndbm(3) libraries and
	you do not have them installed in a "normal" place, you will
	probably want to get the GNU version of ndbm (gdbm) and install
	that before running the CVS configure script.  Be aware that the
	GDBM 1.5 release does NOT install the <ndbm.h> header file included
	with the release automatically.  You may have to install it by hand.

	If you configure CVS to use the ndbm(3) libraries, you cannot
	compile CVS with GNU cc (gcc) on Sun-4 SPARC systems.  However, gcc
	2.0 may have fixed this limitation if -fpcc-struct-return is
	defined.  When using gcc on other systems to compile CVS, you *may*
	need to specify the -fpcc-struct-return option to gcc (you will
	*know* you have to if "cvs checkout" core dumps in some ndbm
	function).  You can do this as follows:

	    $ CC=gcc DEFS=-fpcc-struct-return ./configure

	for sh, bash, and ksh users and:

	    % setenv CC gcc
	    % setenv DEFS -fpcc-struct-return
	    % ./configure

	for csh and tcsh users.

    END OF NOTE FOR NDBM GUNK.

3)  Try to build it:

	$ make

    This will (hopefully) make the needed CVS binaries within the "src"
    directory.  Send me your "config.status" file with your host type,
    operating system information, and make output if something fails for
    your system.

4)  Install the binaries/documentation:

	$ make install

    Depending on your installation's configuration, you may need to be
    root to do this.

5)  Take a look at the CVS documentation.

	$ man cvs

    and

	$ info cvs  

    See what it can do for you, and if it fits your environment (or can
    possibly be made to fit your environment).  If things look good,
    continue on...

6)  Setup the master source repository.  Choose a directory with ample disk
    space available for source files.  This is where the RCS ",v" files
    will be stored.  Note that this should be some shared directory for your
    site.  It should probably be auto-mounted, if you're running NFS.

    Say you choose "/src/master" as the root of your source repository.
    Run the "cvsinit" script to help you set it up.  It will ask you to
    enter the path to your CVSROOT area.  You would enter /src/master in
    this example.

	$ ./cvsinit

    The cvsinit script will setup a reasonable CVSROOT area to start with.
    It is also valuable to folks who already have a CVSROOT area setup from
    using earlier releases of CVS.  It assumes that you have installed CVS
    already (step 4) and that the RCS programs (co and ci) are in your
    PATH.  There are many ways to customize CVS for your site.  Read the
    cvs(5) manual page when you get the chance.

7)  Have all users of the CVS system set the CVSROOT environment variable
    appropriately to reflect the placement of your source repository.  If
    the above example is used, the following commands can be placed in
    user's ~/.profile, ~/.bash_profile, or ~/.login file:

	CVSROOT=/src/master; export CVSROOT

    for sh/bash/ksh users, or

	setenv CVSROOT /src/master

    for csh/tcsh users.  If these environment variables are not already set
    in your current shell, set them now (or source the login script you
    just edited).  You will need to have the CVSROOT environment variable
    set to continue on to the next step.

8)  It might be a good idea to jump right in and put the CVS distribution
    directly under CVS control.  From within the top-level directory of the
    CVS distribution (the one that contains this README file) do the
    following commands:

	$ make distclean
	$ cvs import -m 'CVS 1.4 distribution' cvs CVS CVS1_4

9)  Having done step 8, one should be able to checkout a fresh copy of the
    CVS distribution and hack away at the sources with the following command:

	$ cd
	$ cvs checkout cvs

    This will make the directory "cvs" in your current directory and
    populate it with the appropriate CVS files and directories.

10) Remember to edit the modules file manually when sources are checked in
    with "cvs import" or "cvs add".  A copy of the modules file for editing
    can usually be retrieved with the "cvs checkout modules" command, and
    definitely with the "cvs checkout CVSROOT" command.  See cvs(5).

11) Read the ChangeLog file to see what's new.  REALLY!  I use the
    ChangeLog file as the Release Notes.

12) Hack away.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Detailed info about your interaction with "configure":

The "configure" script and its interaction with its options and the
environment is described here.

Supported options are:
	--srcdir=DIR		Useful for compiling on many different
				machines sharing one source tree.
	--prefix=DIR		The root of where to install the
				various pieces of CVS (/usr/local).
	--exec_prefix=DIR	If you want executables in a
				host-dependent place and shared
				things in a host-independent place.

The following environment variables override configure's default
behaviour:
	CC			If not set, tries to use gcc first,
				then cc.  Also tries to use "-g -O"
				as options, backing down to -g
				alone if that doesn't work.
	INSTALL			If not set, tries to use "install", then
				"cp" as a final choice.
	RANLIB			If not set, tries to determine if "ranlib"
				is available, choosing "echo" if it doesn't
				appear to be.
	YACC			If not set, tries to determine if "bison"
				is available, choosing "yacc" if it doesn't
				appear to be.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
